Solution for Hoof, Paper, Scissors (#1776)
cpinitiative/usaco-guide: solutions/usaco-688.mdx

---
id: usaco-688
source: USACO Bronze 2017 January
title: Hoof, Paper, Scissors
author: Ryan Chou
---

## Solution 1

> [Official Analysis](http://www.usaco.org/current/data/sol_hps_bronze_jan17.html)

Reviewer: do [Official Analysis (Java)] (http...)

Reviewer 2: i think both of those options are fine (?), but i'll check if there's one we want to standardize

Reviewer: i think that the standard should include the language its better that way

## Solution 2 - Generating All Permutations

> Idea: We can map the games to every possible permuation and find which one gives us the most wins. This works because $1 \leq N \leq 100$

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We can map the games to every possible permutation and find the maximum of wins. This works because $1 \leq N \leq 100$
```

Reviewer 3: also add what "permutation"

Author: fixing it. 👍

> ## Implementation

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Implementation
```

Author: oops, i forgot to add it

> ### Implementation

Reviewer 4: add period after "This works because $1 \leq N \leq 100$"

add time complexity below ### Implementation

Author: 👍

Author: added it :)

---
id: usaco-688
source: USACO Bronze 2017 January
title: Hoof, Paper, Scissors
author: Ryan Chou
---

## Solution 1
[Official Analysis](http://www.usaco.org/current/data/sol_hps_bronze_jan17.html)

## Solution 2 - Generating All Permutations

We can map the games to every possible permutation of the moves (hoof, paper, scissors) and find the sequence which gives us the maximum wins. This works because $1 \leq N \leq 100$.

### Implementation

> **Time Complexity: ** $\mathcal{O}(n)$.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(N)$

```

---
id: usaco-688
source: USACO Bronze 2017 January
title: Hoof, Paper, Scissors
author: Ryan Chou
---

## Solution 1
[Official Analysis](http://www.usaco.org/current/data/sol_hps_bronze_jan17.html)

## Solution 2 - Generating All Permutations

We can map the games to every possible permutation of the moves (hoof, paper, scissors) and find the sequence which gives us the maximum wins. This works because $1 \leq N \leq 100$.

### Implementation

**Time Complexity: ** $\mathcal{O}(n)$.
<LanguageSection>
<PySection> 

```py
from itertools import permutations
import sys

sys.stdin = open('hps.in', 'r')
sys.stdout = open('hps.out', 'w')

n = int(input())
games = []

for _ in range(n):

> 	games.append(list(map(int, input().split())))

Reviewer 5: listcomp maybe?
```py
games = [list(map(int, input().split())) for _ in range(n)]
```

Author: sure!

Author: adding it now.

Author: 👍

> # Original Ordering 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```
this seems a bit unnecessary

# 1 = Hoof, 2 = Paper, 3 = Scissors
choices = [1, 2, 3]

# in these cases, cow 1 wins
# hoof beats scissors, 
# scissors beats paper, 

> # and paper beats hoof

Reviewer 5: don't really think these comments are necessary? actually maybe it'd be better to just replace them with 
```py
# hoof -> scissors -> paper -> hoof
```

Author: thanks!

scenarios = [[1, 3], [3, 2], [2, 1]]

# generates all permutations
pers = list(permutations(choices, 3))

maxwins = 0

> 

Reviewer 5: 46 and 48 seem like unnecessary whitespace

Author: > some explanation in the for loop would be nice? but maybe i'm just dumb

thanks for the suggestion, adding it now. :)

for j in pers:
	wins = 0
	for i in games:
		selection = [j[i[0]-1], j[i[1]-1]]
		if selection in scenarios:

> 			wins+=1

Reviewer 5: add some whitespace between operators plz?

	for i in games:

> 		selection = [j[i[0]-1], j[i[1]-1]]

Reviewer 5: uh whitespace between these ops?

Author: oops, my bad
